# Agile-Scrum-Presentation
School project demonstrating understanding of Agile/Scrum principles

This is the final project for a project management course focusing on iterative software development. It contains a Word document and a PowerPoint presentation. My goal was to demonstrate my understanding of the Agile methodology (with a focus on the Scrum framework). Throughout the course we were tasked with taking on the roles of different team members at a fictional company transitioning from a waterfall method of development to Scrum. We were given a fictional customer looking to design travel booking software. The course took us through the full software development life cycle in order to gain a better understanding of the process for all the roles through multiple sprints. I created and groomed the product backlog, created user stories and test cases, managed the sprint backlog, coded features, adapted to changing customer requirements, engaged with healthy communication with fellow team members, and experienced daily scrims and other events. 

The paper contained in the Word document is an overview of the roles I took on during the scrum SDLC, an explantation of adapting to changes, evaluating the tools used by the team, and assessing the effectiveness of an Agile/Scrum methodology. The PowerPoint is supplemental material with a focus on presentation.

The information I have learned is invaluable and I will continue to use it throughout my career. Clear communication is important through all steps of the software development life cycle, be it with customers, stakeholders, or team members. I appreciate Agile's focus on the developer putting themselves in the end-users shoes in order to create user stories/test cases in an effort to better understand and meet project requirements. Even outside of a team environment I intend to continue creating user stories and working incrementally when planning a project. I have also come to better understand the importance of clear communication and transparency to be the best team member possible. A team that communicate properly can provide the best possible product value and minimize confusion or redundancy amongst the team.
